# Dictionary regressions
As powerful as the IBMTTS/Eloquence dictionaries are, because of the way they're designed, every dictionary entry introduces regressions if entered in SPR form. While this doesn't mean every word should be converted to a misspelling or something similarly drastic, as in most cases, the flexibility of SPR entry outweighs the issues caused by it, it's still a factor to consider when writing dictionary entries. Because of this, this project takes a kind of "innocent until proven guilty" approach to adding words (original pronunciations are always presumed acceptable until proven not to be) and if an entry can be removed because the original pronunciation is valid, it will. This document aims to document these regressions for greater awareness of dictionary limitations. Note that this currently only covers English regressions, as I'm not familiar enough with other languages to comment on those specifically.
## Dictionary regressions
### English
* If an entry is a name, several rules break. This includes the more general rules tied to words like administration and corporation, for example, The Mattel Corporation, or the Salazar Administration, but also includes the title rules and other things. For example, because the name Salazar is in the Eloquence root dictionary, phrases like Senator Salazar no longer de-emphasize the word senator. This applies to any words marked as titles, such as Rabbi, Cardinal, Queen, King, Commander, Sir, etc. IBM seems to be using a different internal dictionary which doesn't have this problem, so Senator Salazar and similar phrases work normally. This applies more generally to IBM's dictionary entries; they seemed to be able to basically do whatever they wanted without causing many issues in the synthesizer, so the regressions mentioned here generally didn't happen with any IBM dictionary entries. For this reason, words that IBM changed the pronunciation of are removed from the IBMTTS dictionaries, except in some special circumstances. Interestingly, although the aforementioned Senator Salazar and other names would break if they were added to the roots dictionary, most inflected forms handled by the roots dictionary would not, so Senator Salazars would work normally. This applies to the other rules mentioned here, so something hypothetical like the Salazars administration would also work.
* If a word has an intonation rule tied to its default pronunciation, that rule will break if it's changed. For example, the word identification has the words identification card and identification number tied to it, and if the pronunciation of identification is changed in a dictionary entry, number and card will no longer be de-emphasized. This project aims to preserve these rules where possible, so any word that has phrases tied to it will generally not be added.
* If phrase prediction is on, and something  like Paw Paw, Michigan is entered, the synthesizer will strip out the comma before the state. However, if the pronunciation of Michigan was changed in a dictionary entry, that rule would break. This applies to anything that is internally marked as a country/state, such as Libya, Andorra, Florida, Washington, Wyoming, Delaware, etc.